In this lab, we will use InSSIDer to check the wireless network strength. You will learn how
to:
1. Install and configure InSSIDer.
2. Check the wireless signal strength.

To carry out this lab, you will require the following:
1. Windows OS
2. Web browser with Internet connection
3. Administrative privileges

To detect the wireless network strength, execute the following steps:
1. Type https://inssider.en.softonic.com/download in the address bar of a web browser, and press Enter, as shown in Figure 1.

2. In the webpage that opens, click on the link, Download InSSIDer for Windows, as shown in Figure

3. Click on Free Download, as shown in Figure

4. Click on the downloaded files, as shown in Figure

5. In the next screen that appears, click on Next, as shown in Figure

6. In the next screen, click on the Everyone radio button,and then click Next, as shown in Figure

7. In the next screen that appears, click on Next, as shown in Figure

8. Then the following screen will appear, as shown in Figure

9. Then after the files gets installed, the following screen will appear, as shown in Figure 8. Click Close

Then InSSIDer icon will appear on the desktop, as shown in Figure

10. Double click on the InSSIDer icon on the desktop.
Then the following screen will appear, as shown in Figure 10.

11. Click on the Time Graph tab, as shown in Figure

It will show the time graph of all the available SSID. We need to elect the particular SSID what we need to know

12. Click on the particular SSID as shown in Figure 12. In this lab we have selected WSTREAM AP0 SSID

Now you have to select another SSID for comparison

13. Scroll down the SSID and select WStream AP -1, as shown in Figure.

14. Then the following screen will appear, as shown in Figure

15. Click on the 2.4 GHz channels tab, as shown in Figure

16. It will show 2.4 Ghz channels for two SSIDs,WStreamAP1 and WStream AP0

17. Click on 5 Ghz channel, as shown in Figure.
Then the following screen will appear as shown in Figure.

Thus, you can see the signal strength for both the SSIDs. In this way, we can analyse wireless network strength with the help of InSSIDer tool