Problem Statement: Enumeration of various services that are running on
a target machine using Nmap.
Lab Tasks
To enumerate services on target machine, perform the following steps:
1. Launch Kali Linux
2. Select Applications > Information Gathering > nmap, as shown in the
Figure.
Then the following screen will appear, as shown in Figure.

3. Type'nmap –sP 192.xx.xx.xx/2', and press Enter, as shown in Figure
27.
Then 'Nmap'will scan all the nodes on the given network range and
display all the hosts that are running, as shown in Figure.

4. Type'nmap-sS <IP address of the target machine>', and press Enter, as
shown in Figure (here we have used 192.XX.XX.XX as the IP address).
Then a Stealthy syn scan will be initiated, and all the open ports that
are running on the machine will be displayed, as shown in Figure.

Now, we can see all the open ports along with the services. We will
find the version of each of these services running on the open port by
performing a syn scan with the version detection switch.
5. Type 'nmap -sSV -O <IP address of the target machine>', and press
Enter, as shown in Figure.
Now, the Nmap performs the scan and displays the versions of the
services, as shown in Figure.

We have found the enumerated result. We will now save the scan result.
6. Type 'nmap -sSV -0 <IP address of the target machine> -oN
Enumeration.txt', and press Enter, as shown in Figure.
Then following screen will appear, as shown in Figure.

Nmap will now perform Stealthy Scan with version and OS detection, and
save the result in a text file (Enumeration.txt), which will be located
on home (root) directory.
7. Click on Places > Home Folder, as shown in Figure.
8. Double click on the file Enumeration.txt, as shown in Figure.

Then the following window will appear, as shown in Figure.
You can also check the scanning result in the command line terminal.
Type'cat Enumeration.txt', and press Enter, as shown in Figure.
Then the output of the scanning process will be shown in the command
line terminal, as shown in Figure 39.

Lab Summary
In this lab, we have demonstrated how to enumerate the services that
are running on the target machine and find the vulnerabilities of the
services.
